when most people think of a telephoto
lens they think of one that magnifies
and while it's true that a telephoto
lens does let you enlarge things that
are far away you can also think of a
telephoto lens is one that has a narrow
field of view in fact if a lens has a
field of view that's narrower than a
normal lens that is narrower than what
you can see with your eye then we think
of that lens as a telephoto a little bit
of telephoto isn't that noticeable for
example there is a difference between a
50 millimeter lens and an 80 millimeter
lens but you wouldn't necessarily look
at the 80 millimeter image and
immediately think oh that's a telephoto
image so we tend to think of telephoto
as lenses that present a very telescopic
magnified view and you probably already
have some telephoto power in your
cameras kit zoom lens typical telephoto
lenses range between 50 and 200
millimeters once you go past 200
millimeters you are entering the range
of the super telephoto which I'm going
to call 300 millimeters and up the
defining characteristic of these lenses
is that they give you a tremendous
amount of magnification power making
them ideal for shooting faraway objects
you'll use super telephoto four times
when you can't get close to your subject
nature shooters and sports shooters are
the most obvious candidates for these
big lenses but longer focal lengths also
compress the sense of depth in your
scene if you're unfamiliar with this
idea check out my foundations of
photography lenses course with the
ability to compress depth I can create
compositions that are impossible with
the lens that has a shorter focal length
the depth of field in your image is a
function of your current aperture
setting and the size of the image sensor
in your camera but depth of field is
also controlled by it filling more of
your frame with your subject this is all
explained in foundations of photography
exposure because of their narrow field
of view and their depth compressing
qualities super telephoto lenses let you
isolate your subject with shallow depth
of field effects for the most part
lenses in this category work pretty much
as you'd expect and you've probably
already got some experience with zooming
into your subject to get a closer view
however working with a very long lens
can actually be a little bit tricky and
to get the best results you'll need to
practice some specific techniques your
main concern when working with an
extremely long lens is vibration and
shake now if I've got a field of view
that's this big and I shake the lens a
little bit I don't really notice it that
much because the area that the that this
image is being cropped is so tiny but if
I've only got an area that's this big
and I shake by the same amount you
notice it a lot more so with a very long
lens that can be harder to frame your
shot because the tiny little motion will
create a big change in your composition
since a very long lens makes vibration
more noticeable image sharpness becomes
much more of a concern if you're
shooting handheld with one of these
lenses then it's critical to remember
your handheld shutter rule minimum
shutter speed should not drop below one
over your focal length if you're
shooting with a cropped sensor camera
then be sure to multiply your focal
length by your focal length multiplier
when doing your handheld shutter speed
rule now that rule is just a starting
point with these lenses it's safer to
err on the side of an even faster
shutter speed takes a lot of glass to
make a big telephoto lens which means
that they're inherently going to be big
and it takes even more glass to make a
lens that can open to a very wide
aperture for example a 300 millimeter
f/4 lens will weigh about two pounds
while a 300 millimeter F 2.8 lens will
weigh in and more like seven or eight
pounds consequently most super telephoto
lenses don't have particularly large
maximum apertures for example this lens
here is an f4 point five to five point
six so the practical upshot is that when
I'm using a lens like this I'm more
often going to be shooting with smaller
apertures and that will mean again
longer shutter speeds which will add
further complication to the whole stable
shooting thing so with that in mind most
of these lenses come with stabilization
and stabilization will make your
telephoto shooting much easier
stabilization is an internal mechanism
in the lens that allows it to rebuild
its optics on the fly to compensate for
any vibration or shake you have in your
hand here you can see that I've got a
stabilizer switch for turning
stabilization on and off you might find
it's better to turn it off when you're
working on a tripod
sometimes tripod movements because
they're so controlled can confuse
stabilization mechanisms I've also got
two different modes of stabilization
depending on your lens
some cameras will let you control
stabilization so it only stabilizes on
one axis or the other to help you smooth
panning or give you overall
stabilization other lenses will have
stabilization options to let you change
the frequency of the vibration that the
lens is trying to correct so
stabilization will go a long way towards
helping you shoot more stable footage
tripods of course are the other obvious
way to stabilize your camera and with a
lens this big and this heavy your tripod
choice is going to be more relevant than
the tripod head choice it's really going
to come down to how sturdy the sticks
are and how well they hold your camera
up something else to notice about a lens
like this is in addition to my auto
focus and manual focus switch I have the
option of changing the focus range of
the autofocus mechanism this is here
just to speed up auto focusing if I know
that I'm working with a subject that's
closer then I might switch to the 1.8
meters to infinity that will allow it to
focus as close as almost two meters if
my subject is definitely farther away
than that then I might want to switch
out to six and a half meters to infinity
that will keep it from searching through
the entire focus range and that will
speed up my autofocus if you're shooting
a moving subject then you'll want to
enable your cameras servo tracking
feature with an especially large lens
like this though rather than trying to
track a moving subject you might want to
try to anticipate its location
particularly when you're zoomed in all
the way it's difficult to find something
out there in the world when you're
looking through a lens like this so
trying to get it and follow it can be
trickier if you see that it's going to
be in a particular place set up your
shot there get everything focused and
then fire when it gets into frames is
true for wildlife and sports shooting
all of the lenses that we're going to
look at in this course require practice
to use well and these big telephotos are
no exception they take a very different
skill set than wide-angle lenses do so
be prepared to spend some time learning
how to use them